BattleshipArea

Our Feature: Battleship Area (game)

Covey.Town is a remote collaboration tool used to host virtual meeting spaces with other users in real time. It aims to connect players in an enjoyable way by giving each player an avatar so that they can navigate around and interact with various objects and other players. However, in its current state, the tool only provides basic functionality for a meeting space and some other small features, such as directing players to a link. It lacks ways for players to interact with each other outside of meeting calls. Therefore, our group has decided to add a game called Battleship to Covey.Town so that players can enjoy interacting with others.  Because Battleship is a two-player game, it fosters a one-on-one interaction between the players. Not only is it easier to find one other player as opposed to a group of players, it helps someone get to know the other on a closer level, fostering a deeper relationship. In addition, it can reduce boredom for those waiting in a room, thereby also increasing the time spent interacting with Covey.Town and exploring what it has to offer. Lastly, it could be a great way to help destress, especially before or after attending meetings in Covey.Town. Having a space nearby to assist with mental fatigue can improve the overall satisfaction with the tool.
For our Battleship game, we plan on creating a BattleshipArea to add to the codebase. We will develop a way to render our ship pieces and board on the frontend while adding functionality to the backend for the game mechanics. Below, we have outlined a sprint schedule to detail what we will be implementing throughout the sprints.

Our implementation of the battleship area was created with the format of other "areas" from the covey.town codebase in mind. We represented a  'BattleshipArea' as an object that could be placed in the tilemap like other areas, with full compatibility for placing battleship areas with Tiled. By creating it and initializing into the tilemap, Phaser will create the object's area where the BattleshipArea is placed on the tilemap. Players can join a battleship game by moving close to the area and following the message prompt that pops up telling them to "Press space to play Battleship Game," and players enter a react menu to first each place ships, then play against each other and attempt to guess the tiles the other player placed their ships on. Turns are validated and synced with the covey.town backend managing each client's moves with react hooks and socket emissions.

Future work on Battleship could feature improved visuals, with animations for ships capsizing/a cannon ball splashing in the water on a miss. We could also extend the BattleshipArea to be an interface to multiple different types of games, instead porting it to an 'ArcadeArea' that can support multiple different types of games being played by players. A single player mode feature that allows a user to play against an AI if a user doesn't have someone to play with could be a possible future feature as well.
